[FLINK-18984][python][docs] Add tutorial documentation for Python DataStream API (#13203)
apache/flink: docs/dev/python/getting-started/tutorial/datastream_tutorial.md

---
title: "Python DataStream API Tutorial"
nav-parent_id: python_tutorial
nav-pos: 30
---
<!--
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
distributed with this work for additional information
regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
"License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
software distributed under the License is distributed on an
"AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations
under the License.
-->

> This walkthrough will quickly get you started building a pure Python Flink DataStream project.

Author: Good idea.
How about replacing the `stateful` keyword to `simple` in this page since the application below contains no stateful processing? Currently, we only support stateless `DataStream` processing for Python. The stateful part will be supported later.

{% highlight python %}
ds.add_sink(StreamingFileSink
    .for_row_format('/tmp/output', SimpleStringEncoder())
    .build())
{% endhighlight %}

Finally you must execute the actual Flink Python DataStream API job.
All operations, such as creating sources, transformations and sinks are lazy.
Only when `env.execute(job_name)` is called will runs the job.

{% highlight python %}
env.execute("tutorial_job")
{% endhighlight %}

The complete code so far:

{% highlight python %}
from pyflink.common.serialization import SimpleStringEncoder
from pyflink.common.typeinfo import Types
from pyflink.datastream import StreamExecutionEnvironment
from pyflink.datastream.connectors import StreamingFileSink

def tutorial():
    env = StreamExecutionEnvironment.get_execution_environment()
    env.set_parallelism(1)
    ds = env.from_collection(
        collection=[(1, 'aaa'), (2, 'bbb')],
        type_info=Types.ROW([Types.INT(), Types.STRING()]))
    ds.add_sink(StreamingFileSink
                .for_row_format('/tmp/output', SimpleStringEncoder())
                .build())
    env.execute("tutorial_job")

if __name__ == '__main__':
    tutorial()
{% endhighlight %}

> ## Executing a Flink Python DataStream API Program

Author: PyFlink includes Python DataStream API, Python Table API, etc., in Flink.  :)

> Firstly, make sure the output directory is not existed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that you defined your PyFlink program, you can run it! First, make sure that the output directory doesn't exist:
```

{% highlight bash %}
rm -rf /tmp/output
{% endhighlight %}

> Next, you can run this example on the command line:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, you can run the example you just created on the command line:
```

{% highlight bash %}
$ python datastream_tutorial.py
{% endhighlight %}

> The command builds and runs the Python DataStream API program in a local mini cluster.
> You can also submit the Python DataStream API program to a remote cluster, you can refer
> [Job Submission Examples]({{ site.baseurl }}/ops/cli.html#job-submission-examples)
> for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The command builds and runs your PyFlink program in a local mini cluster. You can alternatively submit it to a remote cluster using the instructions detailed in [Job Submission Examples]({{ site.baseurl }}/ops/cli.html#job-submission-examples).
```

Finally, you can see the execution result on the command line:

{% highlight bash %}
$ find /tmp/output -type f -exec cat {} \;
1,aaa
2,bbb
{% endhighlight %}

> This should get you started with writing your own Flink Python DataStream API programs.
> To learn more about the Python DataStream API, you can refer
> [Flink Python API Docs]({{ site.pythondocs_baseurl }}/api/python) for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This walkthrough gives you the foundations to get started writing your own PyFlink DataStream API programs. To learn more about the Python DataStream API, please refer to [Flink Python API Docs]({{ site.pythondocs_baseurl }}/api/python) for more details.
```
